In the previous video, we already create a
configure menu. Now, in this video, we are
going to create a very config menu. Okay let’s
just start. Open the visual studio code.
First, let’s create a new url, in this case
I will create a verify_config url.
And this url will be redirected to verify_config function
inside viws.py.
Now let’s create verify_config function
inside views.py. I will copy and paste the
script from my note.
Okay let’s understand this cript. If we
see here, the script is similar with configure
function that we have created in the previous
video. Here we have an if statement.
if request.method is post, then this block script will be executed.
But if the request is get, this block script will be executed.
If we see here, the template file that we
use here is the same template with configure function
which is config.html.
Okay now let’s understand the script if
the request.method is post.
Here we define a blank list, later we will use this list
to save the result of the verify command.
Here we have selected_device_id, mikrotik_command,
and cisco_command. Thi is the same thing with
the previous video.
Then we do looping to the selected_device_id
here. We login to the device using paramiko.
If the device is mikrotik, we looping to the
mikrotik_command and send the command to the
mikrotik using exec_command. Then the output
of the command will be saved to stdout variable.
We don’t need time sleep here.
Then, we append the result of the command
to the result list.
If the device is cisco, we do invoke shell
and send the command “terminal length 0”.
After that we looping to the  cisco_command and
send the command to the devices.
Don’t forget to always use time sleep if we doing network automation on cisco using paramiko.
Then we save the output of the command to the output
variable.
Last, we append the output to the result list.
Here we join the result list using ‘\n’
or enter.
Here we return a template file named verify_result.html,
and we use result as a context.
Now let’s create the template file. I already
upload the verify_result.html file to the
resource section, so you can just download
it and put it to the templates directory.
Okay now we have verify_result.html file here.
But the name is not correct
we must have an underscore here, not dash.
Okay now let’s open the browser and navigate
to 127.0.0.1:8000/verify_config.
Here we can see the verify config menu. We can choose
the target devices that we want to verify
and put the command to verify configuration
on mikrotik or cisco device here.
Okay now we have successfully create a verify
config menu. We will not doing the test now,
we will doing the test later in the next video.
But before doing the test, we will create
a log menu first.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video!